# cg meeting 09.02.2020

*mostly taken from https://hackmd.io/9LIywezOQj-h5HX8vvEnSw?view*

Lazy norm deals with 2 different issues:

- We must not typeck anonymous constants in some early queries, most notably `query type_of` and `query predicates_of`. Even if we were to use some hacks, there is a limit to how independent we can make this. One hard barrier is `query crate_variances`.
- Delay unification of constants during typeck. An example for why this is necessary:
    - not relevant for today, skip
    - `D` is an anonymous constant with two generic parameters
    - We can not unify `D<$0, $2>` with `D<$1, $2>`
        - If `$0 = $1` we know that they are equal
        - Analogous to associated types
            - `<$0 as Trait<$2>>::X = <$1 as Trait<$2>>::X`
    - @lcnr: still not sure if this is actually necessary.

---

When using the `const_generics` feature gate, anonymous constants currently have all the generic parameters of their parent, even if they are unused inside of the constant.

This breaks some programs, some of which already compile on stable.

```rust
// unused-subst-4
fn bind<const N: usize>(value: [u8; N]) -> [u8; 3 + 4] {
    todo!()
}

fn main() {
    let mut arr: ?0 = Default::default();
    arr = bind(arr); //~ ERROR mismatched type
    // ?0 = [u8; ?c2]
    // [u8; D<[u8; ?c2]>] <: [u8; ?c2]
    // D<[u8; ?c2]> = ?c2 
    // --> occurs check violation
}
```

Two solutions:
- eagerly filter the supplied generic params to the anonymous constant
    * if we remove parameters that are not explicitly used, have to filter out the where-clauses
    * generating the `ty::Predicate` from the HIR (i.e., `predicates_of` query)
    * annoying thing about `T::Item` which is expanded to `<T as Trait<U>>::Item`
        * but that implies a `T: Trait<U>`, which would bring in `U`
    * will pull in too many parameters, still prevent some programs from compiling (e.g., `fn foo<T, U>() -> [u8; size_of::<T>()] where T: PartialEq<U>` will pull in `U` but it's not really needed)
    * back-compat when later improving the filtering? probably fine
    * additional weirdness`
```rust
pub trait Trait<T> {
    const ASSOC_CONST: usize = 0;
}

impl Trait<()> for u8 {}

pub fn foo<T>() -> [T; u8::ASSOC_CONST]
where
    u8: Trait<T>,
    // pulling in this predicate changes the way we resolve
    // `u8::ASSOC_CONST` here.
    //
    // Do we even want this, optionally change the way we
    // resolve associated constants in anonymous constants?
{
    todo!()
}
```
- start out with still using all generic parameters. Once we can `typeck` the anonymous constant, filter everything which is unused in the mir of the constant.
    - captures exactly the parameters which are needed
    - less self-contained than the first option
    - will we encounter cycles where type checking the anonymous constants needs to look at the anon const substs of itself? I think this is unlikely, but would prevent us from using this option. How likely is this?
        - requires further testing/exploration
    - In general, how do we deal with predicates on anonymous constants? Can we even use anonymous constants in ways which do not also require the predicates of the parent item?
        - Predicates required for well-formedness which get removed with this approach, not yet an issue, but maybe in the future. (https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/260443-project-const-generics/topic/meeting.2009.2E02.2E2021/near/225715123)
# end of meeting
>    - still have to modify `predicates_of` for anonymous constants, can't just use the parent ones, https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/260443-project-const-generics/topic/lazy.20norm.20future.20compat/near/217663295
>
># Optional stuff :sparkles:
>
>- https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com/#narrow/stream/260443-project-const-generics/topic/lazy.20norm.20recursive.20impls
>    - eagerly evaluate fully concrete anonymous constants? probably
